flow: improve reference page for prometheus.scrape component (#2145)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/components/prometheus.scrape.md

# prometheus.scrape

`prometheus.scrape` configures a Prometheus scraping job for a given set of
`targets`. The scraped metrics are forwarded to the list of receivers passed in
`forward_to`.

Multiple `prometheus.scrape` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

> ## Scraping behavior

Reviewer: It might be better to move this section to be _after_ the example, potentially even after arguments and exports. Ditto for the intro section in #2133. 

Reference: https://developers.google.com/style/api-reference-comments?hl=en

> On each unique page (for a class, interface, etc.), include a code sample (~5-20 lines) at the top.

It feels like we'll want to keep information users will access the most frequently closest to the top (brief description, example, arguments, exports) and less frequently accessed information closer to the bottom of the page (behavior). 

cc @karengermond if you have any thoughts on this

Author: I'm moving both the example and the "Scraping Behavior" sections to the very bottom

I also think it ~will help~ helps with the uniformity of the reference pages; all should list arguments, exports, component behavior and then any long-winded explanations of how it works under the hood.

Reviewer 2: @rfratto , @tpaschalis, yeah, in the old days, you'd provide a short description, usage (the command syntax), arguments, then an example if needed.  Moving this example to the bottom won't work, though, because we do need to show the usage before the arguments -- users need to see how the arguments fit/work together.  And I really like how this flows. (haha, sorry)  So maybe we should just change "Example" to "Usage"?

Author: Yeah, I don't believe the suggestion was to move the example to the bottom either, just the more detailed explanation that came with it. We want to enable users to copy-paste examples to get up and running as soon as possible. Not sure about the section header, no strong opinions on that ^^

Reviewer 2: "Example" is fine.  I'm wondering whether people will find their way to the bottom to learn about the behavior. Do you think we should have a link at the bottom of the Example section to the Behavior section?  "For more details, see Scraping behavior"?

Author: Okay, I'll add an anchor link to that section.

The `prometheus.scrape` component borrows the scraping behavior of Prometheus.

> Prometheus, and by extend this component, uses a pull model for scraping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prometheus, and by extent, this component, uses a pull model for scraping
```

metrics from a given set of _targets_.

> Each scrape target is defined as a set of _labels_ i.e. key-value pairs. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each scrape target is defined as a set of _labels_, i.e., key-value pairs. The
```

Reviewer: Apparently it's recommended to avoid e.g. and i.e. because people tend to mix them up: 

https://developers.google.com/style/abbreviations?hl=en#dont-use

Reviewer 2: @rfratto, @tpaschalis , yeah, sorry, I used to always use "for example" rather than "i.e." but at DataRobot, we used "i.e." and "e.g" because the data scientists liked them (and even used them in the right way).  I wasn't sure about our software engineer users but you're right -- we shouldn't use them.  We can go back and update the ones we didn't change at some point. The Google style guide is pretty adamant about this.  ;-)

Author: I've removed these from both PRs. We'll have to find some new obscure latin abbreviations to confuse users with 😅

> Each scrape target is defined as a set of _labels_ i.e. key-value pairs. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Each scrape target is defined as a set of _labels_ i.e. key-value pairs. The
```

set of targets can either be _static_, or dynamically provided periodically by
a service disovery component such as `discovery.kubernetes`. The special
internal label `__address__` _must always_ be present and corresponds to the

> `<host>:<port>` that will be used for the scrape request.

Reviewer: I don't know if we have to call it out as a "special internal label," just saying "special label" seems like it'll be enough.

> By default, the scrape job will try to scrape all available targets' `/metrics`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the scrape job tries to scrape all available targets' `/metrics`
```

Reviewer 2: Google ref: https://developers.google.com/style/tense?hl=en

Author: I'm doing this _a lot_, aren't I? 😅  thanks for the heads up!

Reviewer 2: Haha, it's tricky because these things are happening in the future -- when the software is run. But the present tense is definitely more concise.

> endpoint using HTTP, with a scrape interval of 1 minute and scrape timeout of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
endpoints using HTTP, with a scrape interval of 1 minute and scrape timeout of
```

10 seconds. The metrics path, protocol scheme, scrape interval and timeout,
query parameters, as well as any other settings can be configured using the
component's arguments.

The scrape job expects the metrics exposed by the endpoint to follow the

> [OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) format. All metrics will then be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) format. All metrics are then
```

propagated to each receiver listed in the component's `forward_to`
argument.

Labels that start with a double underscore `__` are treated by Prometheus as

> _internal_, and will be removed prior to scraping. The first use of these

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_internal_, and are removed prior to scraping. The first use of these
```

internal labels is to describe or override the scrape job's parameters. These

> are: `__scheme__`, `__metrics_path__`, `__scrape_interval__`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are: `__scheme__`, `__metrics_path__`, `__scrape_interval__`, and
```

> `__scrape_timeout__` as well as `__param_<name>` for query parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`__scrape_timeout__`, as well as `__param_<name>` for query parameters.
```

The other use case for these internal labels is to expose information from the
service discovery mechanism, grouped under `__meta_*`. For example, using the

> `discovery.kubernetes` component will populate the family of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`discovery.kubernetes` component populates the family of
```

`__meta_kubernetes_*` labels to provide details about the discovered
Kubernetes resources.

The target's labels (and most often the service discovery ones), can be used
together with the `discovery.relabel` component to filter targets and rewrite 

> their label set before they are scraped.

Reviewer: Hmm, I wonder if this is the right place to put this. Once `__meta_*` labels hit the prometheus.scrape component, they're ignored and can't be used by the user. 

Maybe we should just say that target labels starting with `__` are removed prior to scraping targets? Then documentation for how to use `__meta_*` labels can be moved to the discovery namespace documentation.

Author: You're right. I'm removing this whole paragraph, and looking into improving the discovery.relabel page instead.

> The `prometheus.scrape` components regards a scrape as successful if it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `prometheus.scrape` component regards a scrape as successful if it
```

responded with a 200 status code and returned a body of valid metrics.

If the scrape request fails, the component's debug endpoint and debug UI
section will contain more detailed information about the failure, the last
successful scrape, as well as the labels last used for scraping.

> 

Author: Thanks! I've added a small section about these injected labels and metrics, as well as cases where `up` will be zero.

## Example

> The following example will set up the job with certain attributes (scrape

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example sets up the job with certain attributes (scrape
```

> endpoint, scrape interval, query parameters) and let it scrape two instances of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
endpoint, scrape interval, query parameters) and lets it scrape two instances of
```

> the blackbox exporter. The exposed metrics will be sent over to the provided

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the blackbox exporter. The exposed metrics are sent over to the provided
```

> the blackbox exporter. The exposed metrics will be sent over to the provided

Author: Okay, I've added a link. Do you think we should go with a simpler example maybe here?

}
```

Here's the the endpoints that are being scraped every 10 seconds:
```
http://blackbox-exporter:9115/probe?target=grafana.com&module=http_2xx
http://blackbox-exporter:9116/probe?target=grafana.com&module=http_2xx
```

## Arguments

> The component configures and start a new scrape job to scrape all of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The component configures and starts a new scrape job to scrape all of the
```

input targets. The list of arguments that can be used to configure the block is
presented below.

> The scrape job name defaults to the fully formed component name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scrape job name defaults to the component's unique identifier.
```

`authorization`            | `authorization` block | Set up HTTP authorization credentials. | | no
`oauth2`                   | `oauth2` block        | Set up the OAuth2 client. | | no
`tls_config`               | `tls_config` block    | Configure options for TLS connections. | | no
`bearer_token`             | `secret`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token. | | no
`bearer_token_file`        | `string`   | Use to set up the Bearer Token file. | | no
`proxy_url`                | `string`   | Use to set up a proxy URL. | | no
`follow_redirects`         | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should follow redirects. | `true` | no
`enable_http_2`            | `bool`     | Whether the scraper should use HTTP2. | `true` | no

The following subblocks are supported:

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------
[`basic_auth`](#basic_auth-block) | Configure basic_auth for authenticating against targets | no
[`authorization`](#authorization-block) | Configure generic authorization against targets | no
[`oauth2`](#oauth2-block) | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating against targets | no

> [`tls_config`](#tls_config-block) | Configure TLS settings for connecting to targets | no

Reviewer: Is this right? Is this a subblock of _both_ the component and of `http_client_config` as listed above?

Author: The `tls_config` block can be a subblock of both `http_client_config` _and_ `http_client_config -> oauth2`, but not the component itself.

Also, I realized we may want everything in backticks here as well

Reviewer: Sorry, I was commenting on the whole section here, not just `tls_config`.

I was thrown off that the arguments list for the `http_client_config` block included the name of the subblocks. I think we should drop them from the argument list and just keep them in the separate table here.

## Component health

`prometheus.scrape` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`prometheus.scrape` reports the status of the last scrape for each configured
scrape job on the component's debug endpoint.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.scrape` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

> ## Scraping behavior

Reviewer: I'm OK leaving this here for now, but I think after we have all the documentation fleshed out we'll want to spend a little more time making a conscious decision generally where detailed explanation sections should go in the layout of a component reference page.

Prometheus, and by extent this component, uses a pull model for scraping
metrics from a given set of _targets_.
Each scrape target is defined as a set of key-value pairs called _labels_.
The set of targets can either be _static_, or dynamically provided periodically
by a service disovery component such as `discovery.kubernetes`. The special
label `__address__` _must always_ be present and corresponds to the
`<host>:<port>` that is used for the scrape request.

By default, the scrape job tries to scrape all available targets' `/metrics`
endpoints using HTTP, with a scrape interval of 1 minute and scrape timeout of
10 seconds. The metrics path, protocol scheme, scrape interval and timeout,
query parameters, as well as any other settings can be configured using the
component's arguments.

The scrape job expects the metrics exposed by the endpoint to follow the
[OpenMetrics](https://openmetrics.io/) format. All metrics are then propagated
to each receiver listed in the component's `forward_to` argument.

Labels coming from targets, that start with a double underscore `__` are
treated as _internal_, and are removed prior to scraping.

> The `prometheus.scrape` component regards a scrape as successful if it
> responded with a 200 status code and returned a body of valid metrics.

Reviewer: The Google style guide recommends spelling out status codes with explicit formatting:
https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text#http-status-codes

```suggestion
The `prometheus.scrape` component regards a scrape as successful if it
responded with an HTTP `200 OK` status code and returned a body of valid metrics.
```

> If the scrape request fails, the component's debug endpoint and debug UI
> section contains more detailed information about the failure, the last
> successful scrape, as well as the labels last used for scraping.

Reviewer: We're going to end up suggesting just the UI since it scales better, and I'll probably want to remove the existing debug endpoint:

```suggestion
If the scrape request fails, the component's debug UI
section contains more detailed information about the failure, the last
successful scrape, as well as the labels last used for scraping.
```

also automatically available.
Metric Name                | Description
-------------------------- | -----------
`up`                       | 1 if the instance is healthy and reachable, or 0 if the scrape failed.
`scrape_duration_seconds`  | Duration of the scrape in seconds.
`scrape_samples_scraped`   | The number of samples the target exposed.
`scrape_samples_post_metric_relabeling` | The number of samples remaining after metric relabeling was applied.
`scrape_series_added`      | The approximate number of new series in this scrape.
`scrape_timeout_seconds`   | The configured scrape timeout for a target. Useful for measuring how close a target was to timing out using `scrape_duration_seconds / scrape_timeout_seconds`
`scrape_sample_limit`      | The configured sample limit for a target. Useful for measuring how close a target was to reaching the sample limit using `scrape_samples_post_metric_relabeling / (scrape_sample_limit > 0)`
`scrape_body_size_bytes`   | The uncompressed size of the most recent scrape response, if successful. Scrapes failing because the `body_size_limit` is exceeded report -1, other scrape failures report 0.

> The `up` metric is particularly useful for monitoring and alerting on the
> health of a scrape job. It is set to zero in case anything goes wrong with the
> scrape target, either because it is not reachable, because the connection
> times out while scraping, or because the samples from the target could not be
> processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `up` metric is particularly useful for monitoring and alerting on the
health of a scrape job. It is set to `0` in case anything goes wrong with the
scrape target, either because it is not reachable, because the connection
times out while scraping, or because the samples from the target could not be
processed. When the target is behaving normally, the `up` metric is set to
`1`.
```
